---
categories:
- Accessibility
date: '2020-12-06'
tags:
- accessibility
- testing
title: Why you can't skip Accessibility Testing?
---

![](https://testingchief.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/pexels-iliescu-
victor-306198-1024x576.jpg)

For many testers, their first and only preference to certify an application as
fit for use is by running functional tests. Including me, accessibility
testing has never made it to the top of my list of things to test until
recently. One of the main reasons for this is due to the lack of understanding
of the whole spectrum of disabilities and the varying needs of this diverse
group. I have now started the Ministry of Testing's #30daysoftesting challenge
with Accessibility testing to learn more about it. My plan is also to blog
about what I learn each day during this journey.

> Considering 1 in 4 adults in the United States i.e. 61 Million has some kind
> of disability, it is much more important to prioritize accessibility testing
> in your test strategy to ensure your application caters to everyone.

## **What is Disability?**

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) defines disability as any
condition of the body or mind that makes it more difficult for the person to
do certain activities and/or interact with the world around them. It is not
just the impairment in a person's body such as loss of a limb or vision but it
can also be with their mind like memory loss. The other dimensions of
disability include activity limitation and participation restrictions. The
disability can also be characterized by when and how a person got his
disability - Birth defect, an accident, side effects of a disease, or just be
the natural result of aging.

![](https://testingchief.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/accessibility-
icons.png)

Some of the disabilities that are key to the digital accessibility are listed
below -

![](https://testingchief.com/wp-
content/uploads/2020/12/Diabilities-2020-12-06-09.29.06-1024x557.png)

## **Aging and Disability**

They are associated with similar characteristics of physical, sensory, and
intellectual impairment. It is estimated that more than 46% of those aged 60
years and over have disabilities. And with the advancements in modern medicine
and improved standard of living, the average life span has improved
significantly. With this, the number of older persons has increased
substantially and that growth is projected to accelerate in the coming
decades. This increasing user group makes accessibility testing inevitable.

![](https://testingchief.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/pexels-andrea-
piacquadio-3791664-1024x683.jpg)

## **Why digital accessibility testing is important?**

> The power of the Web is in its universality.  
> Access by everyone regardless of disability is an essential aspect.
>
> _Tim Berners-Lee, Inventor of the World Wide Web_

It is all about inclusiveness, and a way to ensure that no one is excluded. If
your application isn't accessible, then you are creating barriers for your
users with disabilities. A 2019 study estimated that 98% of websites violated
some aspects of Web Content Accessibility guidelines such as low contrast
text, missing alternate texts, empty links, and empty buttons, etc. For people
with disabilities, this means online dead ends. Governments all around the
world now have regulations and laws that set out a process for developing and
enforcing accessibility standards.

It is imperative that as Testers, we should include Accessibility as the core
part of our test strategy to ensure that the applications are more accessible
and inclusive.  
  
  
Read more about other software testing blogs
[here](https://skthetester.github.io/).  
What do you think about accessibility testing and its importance? Leave your
comments here or on X [@testingchief](https://x.com/testingchief).

Update: Special Thanks to our reader Emma Rice for sharing [this
](https://www.websiteplanet.com/blog/government-websites-exclude-disabled-men-
and-women-from-non-health-related-webpages/)article with us. It shows how
disabled (differently-abled) people are almost non-existent on government and
stock-photos websites, and when they are represented, they are not represented
as whole individuals but are only shown for their disability.

## References

  * <https://www.un.org/development/desa/disabilities/disability-and-ageing.html>
  * <https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/disabilityandhealth/disability.html>
  * <https://webaccessibility.visionaid.org/disability-types/>
  * <https://www.disabled-world.com/>
  * <https://webaim.org/projects/million/>
  * [https://www.websiteplanet.com/blog/government-websites-exclude-disabled-men-and-women-from-non-health-related-webpages/ ](https://www.websiteplanet.com/blog/government-websites-exclude-disabled-men-and-women-from-non-health-related-webpages/)