---
categories:
- Automation
date: '2020-08-12'
tags:
- artificial intelligence
- test automation
title: What AI means for Testers?
---

It's been some time since I have seen any new solution or tool that is rolled
out without the buzz word "Artificial Intelligence" in it. While AI is not new
and it has been around for over 60 years, every tech company now would like to
label themselves as an AI company or collaborate with partners who are already
doing well in the next phase of intelligence computing. Not sure, either they
really want to embrace what AI has to offer or simply seeking attention and
captivate the audience, but there's been a mad rush and everyone seems to love
to jump on to the bandwagon.

I'm no exception to this, so here’s my blog on AI and you are here already
reading this. Thanks to AI!

## **Demystifying AI - It's not just a Buzz!**

Firstly, we can all agree that the recent advancements made technology openly
available to everyone at reasonable or zero cost.

Another reason is the availability of humungous data among us. People just
wanted to use technology on the available data for meaning references and
decision making. When someone refers to AI today, most likely they are
referring to Natural Language Processing (NLP), Machine Learning or at most
Deep learning, or a combination of these to provide one of these capabilities.

  * **Learning** \- Acquisition of information and rules for using the information
  * **Reasoning** \- Using rules to reach approximate or definite conclusions
  * **Prediction   **\- Using past and current information to predict future
  * **Self-correction or Optimization** \- Learn and correct information

![](https://testingchief.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/ai-testing.png)

## **AI in Software Testing**

In the last decade or so, software testing has evolved more than ever.
Especially, test automation has changed from a specialized skillset to a basic
necessity for every tester now. Other than a very few niche industries, manual
testing as a trade is already obsolete. While exploratory testing is still a
key for each application and system under test, there are very few companies
that hire explicit manual testers for such testing. Either they make use of
business analysts with extensive product knowledge or automation engineers can
perform exploratory testing. In fact, the testing community currently is open
to adopting new technology even before their development teams can get their
hands on to it. This is very evident from so many test automation tools in the
market that has introduced some kind of artificial intelligence to their tool
base.

Currently, AI is used in testing tools anywhere from creating tests, running
them, and analyze their results as well. Enabling code less automation,
automated test case creation, improved test capability, shifting testing left,
reducing time to test, predictive analytics, automated bug tracking,
continuous testing, tighter integration with code are some of the common
themes found. Some of them are listed below.

**Create Tests:**

  * While there are automated test tools right from Selenium IDE or UFT which can record and playback user actions, tools now can intelligently create test cases and document test steps as well thereby reducing the manual effort involved in documenting tests. Example - Functionize.
  * Minimize the maintenance of automation scripts by automatically detecting the new visual changes in the application under test and either notify or automatically update the object repository. Example - Test Craft

**Run Tests:**

  * Predictive Test Selection algorithms can help in identifying and choosing the tests that must be run for the current change rather than running all tests. The prediction could be from the combination of application(s) changes, past results, bug fixes, open issues, etc.
  * Improved image recognition and/or comparison. In contrast to pixel to pixel comparison of the entire image captured, tools boast comparing and highlighting only meaningful differences. Example - Applitools

**Reporting:**

  * Automated bug tracking using predictive analytics to segregate real issues from false positives and remove the painful process of going through the exceptions and error logs.
  * Real-time analytics of test execution, classify, and tag new and similar issues based on the historical bug data. Example - reportportal.io

## **Is it really AI?**

If you are already asking, test automation tools might already be doing all
these for years and why do we need AI? The simple answer is they are doing the
same better, faster, and with fewer limitations now using the so-called AI.
But is it really Artificial Intelligence that these tools are using? It cannot
be a resounding Yes. To me, if there is no self-learning involved, it's not AI
but more of an advanced algorithm, and only a very small set of tools out
there will come close to using real AI.

![](https://testingchief.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/artificial-
intelligence.png)

Finally, I think AI has huge potential in the software testing spectrum to
improve testing efficiency and effectiveness. It can take the test automation
to a whole new level from being just assistance and provide full autonomy but
it has a long way to go. But I think it shouldn’t end up as a forceful
adaptation and unwanted distraction as often most complex problems have a
simple solution and AI might not be the only one or even be the first option.
So, as with any technology, testers and their team need to evaluate the
problem in hand, probable solutions and take an informed decision to use AI or
not.

Read more about other software testing blogs
[here](https://testingchief.com/category/testing/).  
What do you think about accessibility testing and its importance? Leave your
comments here or on Twitter [@testingchief](https://twitter.com/testingchief).