---
categories:
- Software Testing
date: '2020-08-15'
tags:
- testing
title: Do we still need Testers?
---

Recently, there’s been a lot of discussion on moving from traditional software
development teams with a clear demarcation between development and testing
roles to a **full stack team** where developers can develop and test each
other’s code. It is not new; we keep seeing this question “do we need
testers?” arise every few years whenever there is something new in terms of
process or tool in the industry gets traction. Often, testers might be the
first ones to be cut off whenever there is a budget cut. Increasing adoption
of **Agile and DevOps rekindled this question once again** and the world is
divided on this one yet again. Though I identify myself as a hardcore tester,
I have experience in development as well and want to lay down the facts for
you and try to be unbiased in my view on this question.

> **The answer is a resounding Yes! Explicit testing roles were very much
> relevant in the past, they are even now and will be in the future as well.
> But just like any other role, a tester’s role also evolved.**

There is no doubt that the developers are capable of unit testing their code
or even test their peer’s code manually, write automated tests, and integrate
it along with their code into the CI-CD pipeline. But anyone who has done both
development and testing would tell you, both need different mindsets. It is
next to impossible not to have a **cognitive bias when testing your own code
and takes a lot of effort to shift gears between roles**.

![](https://testingchief.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/dev-vs.-tester.png)

Irrespective of the advancements in automation tools and practices,
**Exploratory Testing** still has a special irreplaceable place in software
development. While speed to market is important, simple user experience
disasters can adversely impact large corporations’ reputation much quicker
than before and cause financial damage. It is not just about clicking buttons
and filling in forms but needs a thorough understanding of the business,
instincts developed overtime as a tester to catch bugs and scientific thinking
in real-time.

As stated earlier, the tester’s role has evolved over time and testers must
continuously adapt to stay relevant. The recent change being a **“Quality
Coach”** embedded in the project or at the program level pushing quality
across the board. Focus has shifted from just testing to all aspects of
quality, coaching, and training everyone in the team on the importance of
quality, acting as a developer’s friend to help deliver quality deliverables,
finding problem areas, and solving them.

In the end, Testers are part of the risk mitigation plan. It is always going
to be a business decision based on the project needs, product, and the impact
on the business of not having thorough independent testing. Even if the
project accepts the risks,**testing specialists** will continue to play a
significant role in areas like user experience, performance, and accessibility
testing.

Read more about other software testing blogs
[here](https://skthetester.github.io/).  
What do you think about accessibility testing and its importance? Leave your
comments here or on X [@testingchief](https://x.com/testingchief).