---
categories:
- Automation
date: '2021-01-04'
tags:
- test automation
- testing
title: 'My Take: Test Automation Quotes'
---

The following are some of my favorite quotes on automation. Most of them talk
about automation in general, and most probably made in the times of machines
started replacing men and women in the manufacturing sector. In this article,
I will try to apply these quotes to test automation.

#### Favorite quote of all time:

![test automation quotes: Automation applied to an inefficient operation will
magnify the inefficiency. - Bill Gates](https://www.azquotes.com/picture-
quotes/quote-automation-applied-to-an-inefficient-operation-will-magnify-the-
inefficiency-bill-gates-134-29-94.jpg)

This was a quote from Bill Gates in his book "The Road Ahead" which he co-
authored with Nathan Myhrvold and Peter Rinearson in 1996. And, it is one of
my favorite quotes on automation. If there is an underlying problem with the
process, automation is never the answer. Instead, it will only result in
adding more inefficiencies. So, remember this fundamental principle.

#### From a visionary leader ahead of his time, JFK.

![Automation does not need to be our enemy. I think machines can make life
easier for men, if men do not let the machines dominate them. - John F.
Kennedy](https://www.azquotes.com/picture-quotes/quote-automation-does-not-
need-to-be-our-enemy-i-think-machines-can-make-life-easier-for-men-john-f-
kennedy-60-90-22.jpg)

One of the common myths or fear in the software testing community is
automation will eventually replace manual testing/testers. This is NOT true.
This JFK's quote from 1963 addresses the concerns of the employees of auto
manufacturing industries. The machines replaced the repetitive, manual-
intensive jobs in the process line. But this created newer jobs that need
human skills. This is applicable for test automation as well. It frees up
enough time for testers to do much more productive exploratory testing.

#### Soon, there may only be 2 types of jobs.

![test automation quotes: You’re either the one that creates the automation or
you’re getting automated. - Tom Preston-
Werner](https://www.azquotes.com/picture-quotes/quote-you-re-either-the-one-
that-creates-the-automation-or-you-re-getting-automated-tom-preston-
werner-111-12-42.jpg)

Thomas Preston-Werner said in 2014 that there will only be two types of jobs
in the future: people who code computers, and people who get bossed around by
computers. If you apply this to software testing, automation has become
inevitable. All testers should upskill themselves and start using tools and
automation that complement their manual testing.

#### More force to you...

![The more we reduce ourselves to machines in the lower things, the more force
we shall set free to use in the higher. - Anna
Brackett](https://www.azquotes.com/picture-quotes/quote-the-more-we-reduce-
ourselves-to-machines-in-the-lower-things-the-more-force-we-shall-anna-
brackett-125-57-84.jpg)

Anna Callender Brackett, an American Philosopher said this in the early
twentieth century. As stated earlier, when automation takes over the mundane,
boring repetitive testing tasks, there's more time for exploratory testing to
improve the product's quality.

#### Do it Yourself!

![The age of automation is going to be the age of do it
yourself](https://www.azquotes.com/picture-quotes/quote-the-age-of-automation-
is-going-to-be-the-age-of-do-it-yourself-marshall-mcluhan-134-29-95.jpg)

In 1964, Herbert Marshall McLuhan, a Canadian educator, philosopher, and
scholar said that automation enables us to take care of things in our own
hands. Instead of relying on specialists, the advancements in technology and
newer tools made it simpler for testers these days to perform advanced tests
with a lesser learning curve than ever before. Automation definitely provides
additional confidence in the delivered product's quality.

For more awesome quotes on automation, visit
[azquotes](https://www.azquotes.com/quotes/topics/automation.html).

What do you think? Do you have any favorite quotes that can be applied to
software testing or test automation? You can leave your comments here or on
Twitter [@testingchief](https://twitter.com/testingchief). You can read my
other interesting software testing blogs
[here](https://testingchief.com/blog/).